docs: add documentation for svelte.dev (#31)
sveltejs/mcp: documentation/docs/20-setup/30-remote-setup.md

---
title: Remote setup
---

> The remote version of the MCP server is available on `https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remote version of the MCP server is available at [mcp.svelte.dev/mcp](https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp).
```

Here's how to set it up in some common MCP clients:

## Claude Code

To include the remote MCP version in Claude Code, simply run the following command:

```bash
claude mcp add -t http -s [scope] [name] https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp
```

You can choose your preferred `scope` (it must be `user`, `project` or `local`) and `name`.

## Claude Desktop

> - Open `Settings > Connectors`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open Settings > Connectors
```

- Click on `Add Custom Connector`
- Insert the name you prefer most

> - Insert `https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp` as the `Remote MCP server URL`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Under the Remote MCP server URL prompt, use `https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp`
```

Author: Maybe better
```suggestion
- Under the Remote MCP server URL input, use `https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp`
```
since prompt has a meaning in LLM related stuff?

> - Click `Add`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click Add
```

## Codex CLI

Add the following to your `config.toml` (which defaults to `~/.codex/config.toml`, but refer to [the configuration documentation](https://github.com/openai/codex/blob/main/docs/config.md) for more advanced setups):

```toml
experimental_use_rmcp_client = true
[mcp_servers.svelte]
url = "https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp"
```

> 
> To use HTTP servers in Codex you need to enable `experimental_use_rmcp_client` and the top level must be `mcp_server` but you can choose your preferred `name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Gemini CLI

To include the remote MCP version in Gemini CLI, simply run the following command:

```bash
gemini mcp add -t http -s [scope] svelte https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp
```

You can choose your preferred `scope` (it must be `user`, `project` or `local`) and `name`.

> ## Opencode

Author: ```suggestion
## OpenCode
```

Run the command:

```bash
opencode mcp add
```

> and follow the instructions, selecting Remote when asked for "Select MCP server type":

Author: ```suggestion
and follow the instructions, selecting 'Local' under the 'Select MCP server type' prompt:
```

```bash
opencode mcp add

┌  Add MCP server
│
◇  Enter MCP server name
│  svelte
│
◇  Select MCP server type
│  Remote
│
◇  Enter MCP server URL
│  https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp
```

> 
> You can choose your preferred `name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## VSCode

Author: ```suggestion
## VS Code
```

> ## VSCode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## VS Code
```

> - Open the command Palette

Author: ```suggestion
- Open the command palette
```

- Select "MCP: Add Server..."
- Select "HTTP (HTTP or Server-Sent-Events)"
- Insert `https://mcp.svelte.dev/mcp` in the input and press `Enter`
- Insert your preferred name
- Select if you want to add it as a `Global` or `Workspace` MCP server

## Cursor

> - Open the command Palette

Author: ```suggestion
- Open the command palette
```
